so what do i what do I call you buddy um
the full name is mismo spooling it
derives from cause and racing and stuff
like that okay a lot of people call me
nezzie mismo Nez or you can call me my
real name which is Neil what do you what
do you want me to call you um when is
this alright miss okay this is so nice
thank you very much for coming on stream
today man very welcome and yeah our
pleasure so can can you help me and
twitch at understand a little bit about
why you're coming on today how we can be
helpful and what we're talking about
yeah absolutely
well originally I decided to reach out
to you because I was having a lot of
trouble with motivation okay and I'd
actually recently overcome that pretty
good on my own and I've been kind of
moving forward and awesome in doing my
thing with that and it comes and goes
like yeah I know there's a there's a big
problem with depression and anxiety in
in a lot of not just gamers Internet
users in general right yeah and I've
never really subscribed to the notion
that I think that I have you know any
kind of clinical depression or anxiety
or anything like that I see myself as a
pretty happy guy okay I'm happy I'm a
happy dude I'm not really anxious about
many things but you know we all get sad
we all have bad days bad things happen
it's natural to be sad about stuff but
so
walking on my own motivation and things
like that recently I've shifted to
something that I consider to be more
important to me and something that I've
been trying to figure out for most of my
life which is
I've always been able to pick things up
and be quite good at them off the rip
and then I don't know what causes this I
don't know if I get comfortable at a
certain spot but I don't ever get much
better than what I originally start with
yep so I can always be good but I've
never been able to be what I would
consider great or someone that you know
exceeds expectations I guess I don't
know yeah but you either wear that
correctly okay so what I want to do here
for a second okay so I'm just gonna take
a couple of notes about talking points
okay so and can you tell us so I think
that's a that's a great a couple of
really great things to talk about it you
know a lot of people are surprised to
discover this but I think I fall in the
same camp as you in terms of I tend to
hit my peak performance relatively
easily and then top out pretty quickly
and so I think that there's actually
there's in our perceptions of success
tend to be skewed towards a certain kind
of person and we think about success is
something that's like built day after
day after day in terms of like you put a
break and then you put the next brick
and you put the next brick whereas I
think that for some people the structure
and model of success should be viewed as
a little bit different so we can talk
about that but I think based on your bio
I thought you had a really interesting
story and stuff that you were sharing
can you tell us a little bit about what
you've been up to and kind of how you
got to where you are yeah gaming in
general because like I set up and I've
done a lot of things I've been you know
I've always I've I have ADHD uh-huh
and I never was medicated for it I tried
I tried therapy and all these other
different things for it and and nothing
ever seemed to work but
um I I jumped from thing to thing to
thing pretty rapidly and it's actually
not until the last year or so that I
started medication for it because I'm
terrified of medicines or I'm terrified
of what are they called knock-knock
simulants yes yeah I'm terrified yeah
you and me both man but yes so I've
lived most of my life jumping from
subject to subject to subject and and
doing stuff and excelling at it and
they're just like shooting off to the
next thing and with gaming I'm
originally British by the way I grew up
in England and and then I moved up here
and when I moved over here I got almost
immediately into counter-strike 1.6 okay
and I played it just about every single
day and I you know I got what i would
consider quite good at it and i joined a
local team that was that we did quite
good at it any there was there were very
few people in
public games or public servers or people
that live like around me or people I
went to school with that were better
than me like I didn't have a problem
stomping people out though one casuals
there you go people that were casuals
yeah so I got quite good at that and I
recognized that I was quite good at that
so I decided that you know I kind of
wanted to do more I wanted to challenge
myself a little bit more so I started to
look more towards doing like lands and
competitive stuff and there was a land
center that opened up in my town
conveniently right around that time and
I started to go there very often and
they started the team for 1.6 and I
started playing for that team and it
kind of like took off from there
and 1.6 went really well for me and then
I went to and then source came out and I
decided to want to keep playing through
Counter Strike sauce but when
counter-strike source came out there was
a big upset in
professional I'm gonna use air quotes
professional counter-strike at the time
because sauce wasn't widely accepted by
all of the players and all the
professional players and I wouldn't like
the only reason I would say that I
consider myself a professional is
because twitch accepted it and they gave
me a pot in a badge don't know why the
heck they did that but you know let's
not question I don't want to take it
away and I got winnings for playing for
a team oh cool we're looking at jerseys
okay I was particularly intrigued with
the underwear oh yeah that was my sub
mail a couple of months back it was a
weird stuff oh yeah Chad Booma absolute
boomer
dude I'm more Boomer than dr. K over
here trust nice so anyway when when
source came out it wasn't widely
accepted by the counter-strike community
and or at least the pro counter-strike
community and a lot of players decided
not to just not to play it and not like
competitively so and I was still a
teenager so the you know there wasn't
much money in it for me as it was to
begin with and I never saw it as a job
I never sort of like I saw it as like um
like if you're on like a little league
team when you're a kid and you just you
just playing you're having fun and
you're and you're competing at except
for I was getting like a couple hundred
bucks if I did really well and that was
like my pocket money like I bought my
first car off of counter-strike winnings
Wow
oh no it's a piece of crap so so yeah
that that that happens sauce came out
everybody kind of just dissipated and as
did I so I went to trade school to
become a welder I did welding for a
little bit I was a mechanic for eight
years figs and whole bunch of cars
and then a friend of mine that is a
streamer is a one-percent streamer had
which that we main said 1% streamer a 1%
streamer Chad help me out I won't be
said streamer would be someone like
Moomin I'm trying not to name drop but
what does that mean what a 1% over no no
what is what 1% what does that mean a 1%
streamer would be the the top earnings
or top viewers streamers on the platform
product which yes okay so I was
contacted by this person and they said
hey you know if you're still if you
still into video games and stuff like
that and you're still wanting to you
know play you should start up a stream
and see see where it takes you okay and
I was like okay so that I did that and
it went really well at the beginning
okay I'm very well at the beginning
because I had this friend and we were
working together and we were working
together relatively close and then
things kind of fell off and and you know
the fever ship fell off and all that
other stuff so I kind of went down from
like a 200 viewer Andy all the way down
to like a 20 50 viewer Andy okay
so around in around that time I was like
okay well maybe it's all falling off
because I'm not as good as I was because
I'm getting older and the shelf life of
a player is relatively short like it's
not like a traditional sport where most
people hit like their peak in their 30s
mm-hmm so I decided maybe I just don't
practice enough you know cuz I'd spend
all this time doing you know traditional
jobs and stuff like that so maybe I just
I just don't practice enough so I
started practicing and practicing and
practicing and trying to change things
here and there and do all these
different things and I I never got any
better in fact I would argue that I
started to get worse
in some aspects what I was doing like I
started to like regress a little bit
okay and that dad worked me a little bit
it kind of made me mad and it made me
more competitive and I've always been a
really competitive person mm-hmm
[Music]
so yeah when I started to go to go
backwards a little bit I thought about
you know well maybe I need to exercise
more maybe I need to eat better maybe I
need to do this maybe you need to do
that and I went through almost every
single thing that I could think of to
get rid of this skill ceiling like to
shatter this ceiling and and get better
and I just haven't been able to do it
and it's this the ceilings been there
for almost everything like playing
guitar driving cars like all sorts of
different things it's it so it's always
been there
yeah and I've never known how to destroy
it don't get past it okay thank you so
much for sharing I think you know and I
think maybe that this is kind of like
the place that I would go to look for
the the answer yeah so what kind of
answer are you looking for
let's say Ramona
[Music]
are we good
Chad if we're good say bacon say okay I
don't know what exactly happened but
okay okay so I'm sorry about that so I
think I think they left off with I'm not
sure you're gonna get exactly what you
want so this is what I was saying chat
so I I think that this is one of the
rare cases where I can actually so we
can talk about and we probably should
missus like feelings around various
things like where he's kind of coming
from you know I see something about this
conception that you have about a ceiling
and that you're kind of relentlessly
moving forward in one direction but I
think oddly enough you know so so if I
you know you were kind of saying that
you sort of missed the boat on some
eSports opportunities you're like a
little bit too old to like sort of
really catch that boom and then you kind
of fell out of it for a while and you
sort of made a second chance but I think
part of your problem is that you're
viewing success very narrowly so you're
like someone who sort of says like no
matter how hard I try I can't jump jump
above three feet whereas like it like
let's say there's like an apple that
you're trying to reach above you and
you're just jumping and you can't reach
the Apple you can't reach the Apple you
can't reach the Apple and you're kind of
saying like okay I tried to exercise I
tried to like get on medication for ADHD
and no matter even though I'm doing all
of these things right no matter how hard
I jump I'm not able to reach the Apple
and so you're coming here and you're
saying like okay maybe if we talk things
through I'll be able to jump high enough
to reach the Apple whereas what I'm
gonna tell you is go find a ladder right
I I think you can get to where you want
to go I think you just have a very
narrow focus in terms of how you're
trying to achieve your goal mm-hmm the
other thing that I think is going on is
that I think some of that narrow focuses
by like not really understanding not
having realistic expectations about
certain things so I think that you need
to start making decisions based on data
as opposed to like thoughts and feelings
and sort of what you see around you and
this is why I'm kind of asking some of
these questions so the question that I
was asking is so it is is that I mean
make sense that just like jet narrow
expectation of success yeah yeah I mean
it's my fence okay so like I'm just
gonna give you guys an example so I'm
actually hopefully gonna publish a paper
about this because there's no research
on this so I've started to do actual
like research on this stuff and I'd like
to publish this data cuz I don't think
anyone knows this stuff so news was
saying you know he used this phrase like
top 1% in terms of like twitch streamers
so I was asking is how many people
stream on Twitch is about 2.5 million
okay last I sorry yeah fine
so how much do you think the top 500
streamers what do they make on average
per year on to about a million about a
million eeeh okay top 300 so I think I
think like that's one times ten to the
minus fifth so I think one three are
what what is this let's do some ten to
the fifth or ten to the six so if you
have 2.2 million people
five hundred is gonna be like you know
is gonna be like you know one in 10,000
mm-hmm right so like this like okay so
that so the top one in 10,000 is gonna
be a top 500 streamer roughly mm-hmm
so and you think that the top 500
streamers on Twitch make about 1 1
million or so how much do you think the
top 300 streamers make on Twitch
probably about 1.5 million maybe maybe
touching 2 million okay how much do you
think the top 100 streamers make on
twitch uh 3 million and up okay and what
about the top 10 streamers in the 10
best scores on switch yeah so over time
Alania easily okay
and how confident are you in your
answers
I would say pretty confident Martin 80%
a person okay so let's ask chat so
twitch at how much do you think the top
500 streamers make on twitch so chat
seems to think that 10 million is keep
in mind Chad Devin Nash just did a video
on this like two or three days ago and
what did he say 10 million is is a
pretty reasonable expectation for the
top the very tippity tip-top okay so of
tour streamers I'd be curious about
where he's getting his data so I don't
know where to get good data about this
but my analysis has been different you
know so top 500 like what are people
saying like people are saying like 50k
or so right 50k for a person
yeah okay so what do you guys think
about top 300 streamers
way more than 50
top 300 is one mil to 500k okay so maybe
I was up yeah
and that tots alright so like I don't
know where to get good data about this
cuz I'm new to twitch but based on the
data that I've what I did is look at
twitch aggregators and looked at the
total amount of subs then twitch people
have and then looked at a few articles
and compared so there are some articles
that are in depth about topstreamers and
sort of say that this is how much they
make from subs I don't know how accurate
the state is this is how much they make
from donations this is how they make
from sponsorships this is how much they
make from like like advertising yeah and
sort of I took the top ten streamers I'm
not talking about YouTube I'm just
talking about twitch income are you
talking about total income are you
talking about income from twitch I was
actually just talking about substance
subscribers alone okay so I'd be really
curious and I could be wrong about this
stuff but based on some of the twitch
aggregators which so this is publicly
available data in terms of subscribers
right subscribers is publicly available
and then what I did is I took the top
ten streamers and found articles about
them and compared how much they make
from subs to how much they make from
everything else and based on my analysis
the top 300 streamers make at least 10
grand a year the top 300 yes so my data
could be wrong this is the data source
that I'm using so I'm really curious
about you know where other people are
getting their data the top 300 people on
twitch make a hundred grand a year and
the top ten make over a million no I'm
thinking more more chat how many how
many streamers do you think on this
platform have over 20,000 subscribers
yes so so 10k subs so yeah let's so I
mean I'm curious about this right so
twitch
scriber aggregator right so let's find
you guys are saying who so 10,000 subs
yes so like I'm looking at this twitch
tracker calm I don't know how good this
data is support according to this the
top 30 streamers on Twitch have about
10,000 subs that's top 30 out of 2.5
million right so like I think there's a
big drop off between 30 and 100 and yeah
so like according to Devin Nash so that
I'd be curious about where Devin Nash is
getting his data because I'm just
talking about twitch some so I don't
know about other things but like this
website I don't know how good this
website is but it seems to aggregate
twitch data and they have api's and
stuff so if you use this sub sir monthly
right yeah yes so I get more of a split
at certain yep amount some subscribers
yeah you can renegotiate your split with
with twitch at certain points go to so
uh let's just do some back of the napkin
math right now I don't know if this kind
of stuff is like what y'all are looking
for but so 3,500 times it's five bucks
per sub right and you get thirty percent
of that so that's three point five yeah
so is so you get three point five
dollars per sub once you're a partner
right no no you get you start out with
the initial 5050 and put for just tier
ones to two and three work differently
on the split but we'll go into that and
then yes you have 500 for a certain
amount of time then you can renegotiate
to 275 and then three and then yeah so
I'm assuming that your
70% rate so let's just do this back of a
napkin math twitch so I'm looking at the
top one so the 100 the 100th person on
twitch has 3500 subs right according to
this website so I don't know maybe this
website is wrong if you have 3500 subs
and you're making three point five
dollars per sub that's $12,000 a month
so from subs this making this guy is
gonna make about a hundred and fifty
grand a year wait and that's the average
Patna that's what that's the one hunt
number 100 the what number 100 on the
subscriber count so this guy has is at
the bottom he's number 100 in terms of
number of subs
[Music]
hmm yeah so yes he is 3500 subs so if
you guys have better data I'm open to
listen to it I don't I don't really talk
much about about money on twitch so I'm
I'm yeah so but I know it here is that
like I think I don't know so I think
what's going on so I tried to look for
data on this stuff and I think that the
numbers are way inflated based on what I
can find
so there may be a lot of income that I'm
not considering like YouTube and like
patreon and like all these other income
streams like I'm not sure but based on
the actual data that I can find I think
this is a huge problem because I think
like when you say top 1% the top 1% of
streamers I think makes [ __ ] because
there are two point five million
streamers so the top 1% of streamers on
twitch is the top 25,000 streamers on
twitch okay yeah you're much better at
math than I am right so so I think the
first thing is like I and like I said
I'm gonna publish a paper about this and
I'm glad you guys told me about Devin
and things like that because I think
that you know I'll talk to Devon about
it personally and I'll watch this this
disguised toast video and I think that
YouTube in a lot of ways is more
lucrative than twitch but I don't know
like these guys are the experts in this
stuff I'm not an expert I'm
to scientists and I found whatever data
I could get my hands on and I analyzed
it but the first thing is that when
you're kind of thinking about your
success
you should understand like what you're
actually comparing it to because if
you're comparing it to you know like if
you're expecting to make like you said
you bought a car and you said like
that's not that big of a deal based on
my analysis that probably makes you
quite successful on twitch like you're
probably in the top 1% you're in the top
25,000 if you're making well it was hard
it wasn't from streaming that that that
income was from from tournament winnings
and stuff like that it wasn't it wasn't
from streaming I didn't stop streaming
like regularly until about 2016 but I've
I've it's really hard to explain but
I've been on Twitch since it was just in
TV yeah but I didn't start like taking
streaming seriously until about 2016
yeah so so so it sounds like that was
from your tournament winnings but the
first thing I think is that we've got to
do is take a step back and think about
what your what your goals are and what
your expectations are for success so the
first paper that I'm going to publish is
going to be about percentage of eSports
players like I'm curious if you guys
want to know this like what percentage
of people become professionals in a
particular eSport what percentage of
professionals earn what percentage of
prize pools so this is the first paper
that I'm gonna publish it's gonna look
at five or six eSports and tell you what
percentage of people go pro what
percentage of people who go pro earn a
significant amount of money what
percentage of the player base do you
need to be in to make a hundred grand a
year and the numbers I think are gonna
shock a lot of people because I have
this this impression that there's a huge
bias going on in the minds of like
streamers and youtubers which is that we
see we have a huge bias towards seeing
the most successful people so we somehow
think that that's common whereas like as
people are noticing 2.5 million people
are streaming on Twitch like most of
them get like less than 5 views per
stream
for the lifetime of their stream so
there's like this huge community of like
and that's where we need to think about
ourselves so so my sense just the short
conclusion to my paper is gonna be that
your likelihood of becoming earning a
salary where you make at least a hundred
or not even the salary a total lifetime
winnings in an esport of a hundred grand
is the same percentage chance as you
playing basketball in high school and
ending up in the NBA
then so you were long if you were on the
high school basketball team your chances
of entering the NBA are the same as if
you play an eSport making a hundred
grand of lifetime earnings and I think
sorry yeah go for a job there's a lot of
professional counter-strike players now
who's after their entire career spanning
from like spanning from one point six to
csgo and they're on massive
organizations that their total winnings
is for their entire careers like a
hundred and fifty thousand some of them
yeah not all of them but some of them so
I think like the first thing is that if
you're interested in making it in this
business I think you've got to be really
realistic and don't set yourself up for
a false standard I don't think it's my I
don't think my problem here is or my my
ask here is like like monetary success
or stream success or or anything like
that I think I'm too competitive
I'm way too competitive and I don't know
how to dial it back and I've never been
able to frickin dial it back what do you
mean by waiting oh sorry go ahead
oh it's ruining my content because when
I play a game that I don't care about or
when I play a game strictly for fun my
streams are way more fun to watch I'm
I'm more laid-back I'm more funny I do
also like I do like you know more sub
games and stuff like that but if if it
bites me and I get competitive about it
then everything makes me upset when
things don't go the way I like the way I
expect them to or if I'm you know if I
get outplayed or something like that
which happens often now because I'm 30
I'm an old man so I get outplayed all
all the damn time but the but it it
makes me mad and it makes me more mad
than it should because I know that that
part of my life is over
I'm not a professional player I'm not a
professional player in even this era of
eSports like I just want to make content
and I just want to be happy making that
content and I just want to make the
people that enjoy that content happy
okay that we can definitely so now we're
gonna switch gears okay so thank you for
sharing that is because I think that
this is going in a direction that I
don't know if that's going to help you
but I think what I'm hearing from you is
that you make your best content when
you're free from expectations and when
your expectations get dashed that's when
you sort of get into a funk and the funk
in turn negatively impacts your content
yes so I think that so the reason I sort
of mentioned all the the the twitch data
is because I think it starts with
expectation
right so you're saying that the crocs is
when your expectations are dashed that's
when you start to tilt and when you
start to tilt the content that you
produce in the way that you play the
game gets negatively impacted when when
I take the game too seriously as soon as
the game goes from being fun to being
like whatever whatever switch pops in my
brain and it says oh now you got to be
the best that's when it gets ruined and
that's when I completely agree so let's
let's understand that switch right so
what is that switch
you
probably my ego getting dashed from
somebody bet being better than me okay
even though I tried to tell myself you
don't care about this game you don't
care about being good at this game like
it doesn't matter don't worry about it
it still happens so so what what what
hurts once when someone is better than
you like you tell yourself that it
doesn't matter but it clearly does right
yes it does what you tell yourself is
that it shouldn't matter but if you want
it to not matter telling yourself it
shouldn't matter is not the way that you
do it if you want it to not matter
anymore you have to understand why it
matters okay so I want you to think
about it this way like if a dog is
barking and I tell the dog hey there's
nothing going on there's no reason to
bark is that dog gonna stop barking no
so why is the dog barking to begin with
it feels like that there's something
exactly right so so how do we get the
dog to stop barking
let it outside to see for itself sure I
think that's a great answer right we
have to address we have to address the
underlying source of the dogs anxiety
and letting it go look outside and see
oh there's nothing there we'll do it or
we can somehow calm it down so then the
question becomes it's not that it
shouldn't matter because it clearly does
but what does it feel to you like like
what does it feel like when these people
like beat you in a game you're playing
you're having fun someone out plays you
and then how do you feel I don't know I
just I just don't feel like
I feel like I'm kind of like riding on
this on this on this boat or this wave
that I'm still good and then it's just
the realization that I mean I may still
be good I don't know but the generation
that's coming up now are just better
they're faster they're more in tune they
practice harder like they're just
they're just brought up better than when
I grew up but you're playing these games
I'm just there it's trying harder the
Train how does that make you feel it
makes me feel like I haven't done enough
to stay relevant to stay good in these
games like I haven't I haven't put the
time in
like I'm older than these people I've
been playing these games for so much
longer you know you would think X amount
more hours into these games than these
other people I should be you know at
this level but I'm just not so there's
something that I'm not like that I'm not
doing that they're doing and it just
gets into my head and it makes me think
like what are these people doing what
well so I think this is this is the
problem this because you think that
there's something that you can do that
will make you that good yes I believe
that anybody that any one human can do
what any other human can do I truly
believe that that if you have able-body
enabled minds that you can be just as
great as anybody else and I don't think
that it age means anything I don't think
if you if you could put your mind to
something you can do it that's how I
feel okay where did you get that belief
thing that was something that my
grandfather told me when I was when I
was probably about 10 or 11 okay and
that sounds very encouraging yeah yeah
yeah how does that belief make you feel
I guess it depends on when I think about
it okay so so if I think about it first
thing when I wake up I feel like yeah I
could be just as good as anybody else I
can be just as as as good as the next
guy
or just as good as the person I see you
know slaying out and doing really good I
could be that guy but if it's if it's
right after I just got you know rail by
somebody and I think about that that I'm
just like if that's if that's the case
why am i you know what am I doing wrong
why am I still not you know doing better
so I see that is sort of inspirational
on the one hand and it's also the way
that you beat yourself up on the other
hmm what do you think about that I mean
there's no arguing it I mean it sounds
reasonable it sounds logical yeah but I
mean is that what you do do you beat
yourself up with that belief like
sometimes it inspires you and other
times you use that to blame yourself for
your failures and you say that if you
had if you had worked harder you could
have accomplished more so you [ __ ]
need to work harder and why can't you
work harder yeah I suppose I do beat
myself up but with it sometimes I don't
go out my way to do it but it I guess no
I don't think you go out of your way I
think it's reflexive I think it's habit
right like every time you get outplayed
not maybe not every time but when you
get outplayed it's really easy to think
like man like I should be able to do
this like I should be able to do this
mm-hmm does that make sense yes yes and
it's exactly what goes through my mind
yeah and I don't even think I think the
the problem here is that when I say beat
yourself up it's hard for you too
think about it like that because it's
become so automatic like you they just
think that that's true it's just does
that sort of make sense like you say
yeah I do this all the time but you
don't consider it beating yourself up um
I think I think if I could put a little
I could put a little context to this
sure because my coach like when I was 17
or 18 years old told me that there is
absolutely no excuse for failure and
it's like I don't think that he was a
very good coach I don't think that I
think he he he led me and and and taught
me through anger so and looking back on
it now that's that's almost exactly what
he did so like if I if if I lost and I
sat there and I thought oh man I just
got out play but you know he was so much
better than me he would come up and be
like you shouldn't be this comfortable
being being bested like that you
shouldn't feel comfortable getting beat
like that it should it should inspire
you it should make you you know it
should make you want to be better than
that person there's you know you
shouldn't be happy in losing you
shouldn't be content in losing and
that's what he would drill into my mind
all the time do you think that got
drilled in yes absolutely do you think
that your mind operates that way now yes
and what do you think about that belief
I know logically that it's it's crap and
it's not sports been like and it's not
realistic it's I mean it's sad you
should be able to appreciate somebody's
skill when they beat you always yeah so
at the beginning of this you remember
when I told you that I'm I'm sorry to
say this news but I don't think I'm
gonna give you the answer that you're
gonna look that you're looking for
because I think your your app
you're the answer that you're looking
for is something that'll let you break
through that skill ceiling whereas I
think the basic problem here is that
like your premise about the ceiling is
wrong right that you're you're telling
me that he led you through anger and you
started to believe that there's like you
should you should want to be able to
beat them and you should find you should
start with the belief that it is
possible to beat them because if you
don't start with the belief that it's
possible to beat them then there's like
that's what fuels you to go forward and
I think this is the pattern that you've
kind of count like you've reinforced
time and time and time again and I think
the reason that you give up is because
in a weird way like you lose heart
because you don't live up to your own
expectations so then you quit but you
set such a high standard for yourself
that the only option is failure so like
let me ask you this is I know that
sounds weird but we'll get there so like
when when you switched from one when you
were playing 1.6 how did you feel about
yourself
great
I felt worried about that there was a
number of things I did at that age that
I would that you know I was competitive
in I used to race motocross and I did
combat sports and stuff like that but
they were always like things that felt
like hobbies like the racing motocross
was my dad's idea and it was kind of
like what he wanted me to pursue so I
did that to make him happy
the the the combat sports felt like just
kind of something to do after school so
and but the the gaming was something
that I like I was passionate about and
that I drove myself to get better at so
let's pause for a second what was the
goal that were you were driving yourself
towards when you were playing 1.6 to
have fun okay cuz back then there was I
mean eSports was cyber athletics League
it was basically a forum okay so so what
I'm hearing you saying is that your goal
was to have fun and get better yeah so
let's talk about the transition to
source how did you feel when when source
came out when sauce came out I've been
competing for a little bit and I'd kind
of like knew there was something there
but I didn't see the future in it
because the the game was like so
horribly accepted that I was like okay
well that's it then that no one's gonna
play this game professionally there's no
like there's no point in me staying here
like I'm just gonna go to school so
that's why I would you trade school and
I went to university and that happens
like a lot in eSports like games will go
up and and you'll you'll work your butt
off to get really good at that game and
then that game will kind of like fall
off and then a new game will pop up and
then you've got a you know you've got a
can constantly be chasing different
games all the time if you constantly be
chasing different games for what though
why are you chasing that game
if you're making a career out of it then
you know so then so then why are you
okay so you say they go to make a living
out of it so so would you say that the
reason that you were tried to get good
at source and ultimately the reason that
you left source was because you felt
like you couldn't make a career out of
it or that winning was insufficient to
make a career yeah I mean I saw the
community breaking up and I saw people
like just not interested in it and I I
too thought you know and I I need to I
need a real job I need a real job I need
real education like this doesn't make
any money so I'm not hearing anything
about this sort of drive to succeed
drive to be better than everyone else
drive to win drive that if you put in
enough enough time that you will be
successful I'm not hearing any of that
when it comes to source
well source falling apart didn't have
anything to do with my personal Drive
like I could still be good at the game
but if the game doesn't have the the
competitive following like that there's
there's nothing I can do about that
yeah of course so I saw I put that
passion into school okay yeah but that's
all I'm saying right is is that I'm not
saying that it wasn't warranted for you
to think what you did I'm just noting a
distinct difference between your
attitude between one-point-six and
source no like it in one it was about
having fun it was about getting better
and in the other it was about a career
and there's no career so let's forget it
so let's talk about becoming a welder
how did you feel about that
I felt really really proud of myself
like unbelievably proud of myself okay I
liked working with my hands I liked like
yeah I liked building things I liked
feeling like you know what's the word
I'm looking for uh the phrase or word
I'm looking for here like I felt pretty
accomplished but I I had made that
somehow I had made that competitive as
well like I've always wanted my welds to
be better I always wanted you know else
to be better than what other welders
that like I worked at a shipyard for a
while as a bulkhead welder and there was
other bulkhead welders and you know we'd
get done with a day's work and you know
weld inspection would come around and I
would always want from mine to be as
flawless as a weld could be you know
just so Isis feels oh hold on a second
this is important there's a difference
between your welds being better than
other people's welds and your welds
being as flawless as they can be
what's the distinction though exactly
exactly
okay so let's say that I enter a chili
cook-off okay and getting the first
prize in the chili cook-off
is different from making really good
chili
so I can make really really good chili
hmm and I can be from Texas or I can be
in New England and win a chili cook-off
and it's still gonna be shitty chili so
it Madison the total that you're up
against absolutely
so comparison so let me just have you
listen to the language okay you think
it's competition but I don't think it's
competition against others so this is
just the language that you used when you
were playing 1.6 you are happier when
you were playing source I think you are
less happy when you were welding you
were more happy so let's see and right
now you're not happy you're discontent
and what I'm noticing is there's a
subtle thread there's a subtle theme in
the times that you're happy and the
times that you're unhappy when when
you're happy it's about having fun and
getting better when you're happy it's
about making the most flawless weld that
you can hmm when you're unhappy it's not
about playing a good game it's not about
having fun it's not even about playing
the perfect game it's playing a game
that isn't as good as someone else's
playing one is about you and one is
about other people
one is about a comparison of your worth
related to other people and one is about
just your work and the work that you put
out
when you stream and you create good
content you're not thinking about other
people you're thinking about having fun
and playing the game and when you create
bad content you're thinking about other
people mm-hmm that's all coming full
circle now yeah I mean that I am the
happiest what I'm just enjoying
streaming and I'm enjoying like being
sunny and having fun absolutely and I
think that you you do you are
competitive and that competitiveness can
manifest towards yourself or towards
other people and what I mean by that is
you can weld one day and you can say
this weld was not perfect tomorrow I'm
gonna do better that's what I think what
you mean by by being competitive and I
do think that you get enjoyment out of
having your welds be better than other
people's but something tells me that if
you were surrounded by shitty welders I
would hope that you continued to try to
improve your welding yes that there's a
difference between creating like a good
product and creating the best product
like there's a difference between being
the best and being better than other
people
oh my dog that's okay does that well
he's doing exactly what you were talking
about a minute ago yeah
[Music]
so I have I have a question what is
forsen CD what does that mean I see
people posting about fours in CD a lot
so he's gonna hang out with me now
that's what the chat and dr. K means
zerah
he likes to buy said nothing he likes to
what barking okay okay so so tell me
about so does that make sense
Nate um yes yes it does it makes an
overwhelming amount of sense and tell me
what you understand what I understand is
what I understand is that I'm I'm
focusing too much on on being better
than somebody else and not focusing
enough on being better than myself
absolutely so now we're gonna go to one
last example okay how did you feel when
this 1% streamer reached out to you and
said hey let's start working together um
well I didn't know how popular he was at
the time I just felt like an old friend
was reaching out to me and I felt like
good and how did you feel then misuk
like like good you know like how you
feel when any old friend reaches out to
you absolutely what 10 years generally
positive and how did your feelings
change when you started to discover how
popular they were
I mean I didn't I didn't resent him I
didn't feel like jealous of him like not
genuinely happy that he was that he was
doing well I genuinely believed that how
did you feel about yourself I felt
excited that there was something for me
to like try and something for me to try
to excel at okay and then what happened
and then I got back into shooter games
and I mean it's it's so weird because at
the beginning I didn't do it to be the
best I just did it to be to be funny and
have fun and then you know it got out of
hand but did when it got out of hand I
switched games almost immediately hold
on hold on so what is out of hand this
is important out of control what is that
in what way what got out of hand
I got too competitive by okay okay much
on trying to get to the top of
leaderboards and and prove to everybody
who was who was essentially nobody that
I was so dang good like yeah so what do
you think like who are you thinking
about at that point yourself or other
people I was thinking about the other
people that were on the leaderboard that
I'm sighs yeah right so at that point
it's no longer about like welding for
the sake of welding it's about like
comparison to other people and I want
you to watch the shift and really think
about it because you use the word
regression when you were describing this
scenario mm-hmm that everything started
out great but then you regressed and I
think we see it right here we see that
when he reached out to you you didn't
know when you weren't thinking about
other people it's just a friend reaching
out and saying hey man let's do
something fun and you were like [ __ ] it
yeah let's do something fun mm-hmm and
then you started out and you had good
viewership and everything was fantastic
and you were having fun and they were
having fun you didn't realize how big of
a deal they were and I don't I didn't
mean to imply that I thought you were
jealous of them or anything like that
because I don't think that's what it is
I think all it is is you start to
compare your
self it's not that you're jealous of
them it's just that you look at their
success and you look at your success and
you look at other people's success and
the more you start to compare it no
longer becomes about am i proud of what
I created it becomes how does what I
create compared to what other people
create and the more that you move in
that direction the more you feel like a
failure and then you have this [ __ ]
belief which i think is adaptive and
toxic that if you put your mind to
something you can accomplish whatever
you want you I do not believe that at
all because I don't believe that you
control what happens in this world I
think all you control is what you do I
do not believe that I can become
President of the United States and that
anyone who puts their mind to it can
become President of the United States I
don't believe that I think it's [ __ ]
ridiculous I don't think anyone can
become a doctor I don't think anyone can
become a TI winner or anyone become can
become a professional eSports player I
don't think anyone can become anything
that they put their mind to I don't
think that anyone can cause someone else
to fall in love with them I think all
you control in this life is what you do
you don't control what you get hmm I can
wake up and I can I can do research and
I can practice and I can create a Chile
that involves beans and three kinds of
bacon and six kinds of peppers and I can
make the best chili that I can make but
I have no control over whether I win the
contest
I don't know if I necessarily like full
and it might just be because I've sat
here and believed it for so long
absolutely I don't I don't undo make
more beliefs about life in a day yeah
it's gonna take me some time to like get
over it but in the back of my head all
I'm hearing myself like all I'm hearing
myself my subconscious say is but we're
all human so why is that saying that
limits
I agreed I don't know it's like it's on
loop yeah but so you're damn it on loop
on my life you're damn right we're all
human and that's that's what you that's
actually what you have trouble accepting
because you believe you're superhuman
you believe that you're not just human
that if you work hard enough and you
keep working that you will achieve that
you can achieve anything that you put
your mind you that's not human
so I think the really tricky thing about
your your belief system is that it like
you're preserving some kind of control
over your life that I don't think you
really have like I think that in a weird
way like you always consider yourself to
be responsible for everything that
happens to you and I'd be really curious
like where you got that idea because
you're kind of thinking like it's almost
like you're thinking about like the
world is a vacuum where your effort
creates a result and that nothing else
influences that I don't believe that any
person who puts their mind to it will
you know can win a particular sporting
event I just don't think that's possible
like I think they're gonna hold it in
the time to practice and learn and and
and and develop the skill set you you
can be the person that overcomes and
wins you know a sporting event you a
hand win but I don't think you're
guaranteed to win so I had this problem
so I did some consulting for a Korean
eSports organization and this is
something that though like the head of
the organization just did not understand
he was like no if we practice and we
practice harder then we can win and I
was like yeah you can win but you're not
guaranteed to win yeah because that
makes sense you know you're not
guaranteed anything but that's not the
way you think right you say that if I if
I had worked harder if I had if I had
grinded more then I would be able to be
better than that guy
yes I yes I believe that I believe that
if I'd put in the same amount of time
and the same amount of effort and tried
to change the things about or changed
the bad habits that I'd built years
before and and build in a different way
that I could possibly yes yes partner oh
hold on hold on hold on hold on there's
a difference between possibly and
guaranteed because I think in your mind
it's not actually possibly I think in
your mind you believe that if you had
lived a different life you were
guaranteed to win a particular event or
a particular match a lot like me in my
head I don't think that I'm not talking
about logic I'm talking about this that
when you lose there's a part of you that
says if I had done this better this
would not have happened I believe that
what's in here is not possible it's
definitive hmm that's what I hear you
saying
I'm talking about the way that you feel
that when you look at your life and you
say I can't break out of the ceiling and
then what happens is the reason you
can't break out of the ceiling is
because you [ __ ] up at some point or
you didn't do enough at some point hmm
and I think that whole thing like needs
to be dismantled I don't know exactly
how we're gonna do it but that that - so
I mean I think this is where like you
know you're setting a particular goal
for yourself and you're beating yourself
up because you don't achieve that goal
whereas I don't think you can achieve
that goal I don't think it's yours to
achieve I think it's it as a human being
you can practice and you can dedicate
yourself and you can work really hard
and that oddly enough success is more
likely then but it's not guaranteed and
when I look at the story of your life
the times in which you didn't shoot for
something particular or the times where
you've been the most successful and the
time that the times that you've been
most content because when you were
playing 1.6 you weren't necessarily
trying to reach the Apple you're like
I'm gonna play this [ __ ] game I'm
gonna get as good as I can I'm gonna see
how many noobs I can own hmm and when
you weld it you were like I'm gonna put
this [ __ ] together I'm gonna weld and
I'm gonna make it is damn close to a
perfect weld as I can mm-hmm you didn't
say I'm going to make the perfect weld
you said I'm gonna make as close to a
flawless weld as I can your words no
guarantee effort Direction hope but
humility a lack of control
I'm gonna make as close to a flawless
weld as I can it wasn't I'm gonna make a
fall as well
and I think you're you're absolutely
right that you have this belief that
anything you can put your mind to you
can accomplish and that that belief can
be inspirational at some times but when
your ego gets activated and you have the
comparative mindset then it becomes
toxic and then you compare yourself to
other people and then you say why am I
not good enough why the [ __ ] like I
should be able to do this because that's
what you're really telling yourself it's
not I can put anything I can put do
anything that I put my mind to the real
thought so this is a it becomes a
different thought sounds like the same
thing and at the beginning of the
morning I can do anything that I put my
mind to when you're feeling bad the
thought changes subtly but it changes
too I should be able to do this hmm
that's the thought right do you
understand that like that those are
different yes it's it's like it went
from being hopeful to being feeling like
I'm owed something yes yeah
entitlement yes the other thing the
other thing is that you beat yourself up
for it
I think so entitlement is a little bit
different but you think you're owed
something in life and you're not owed
[ __ ] in life man sorry to tell you that
like this is this is the problem right
so like earlier I was talking about
putting the 140 like rejections up on my
wall from medical schools like I'm not
old like it took me a long time to get
it through my [ __ ] head that I'm not
owed [ __ ] from any of them like I can
work really hard and I can have a really
good score and I can have a really good
GPA but at the end of the day I do not
get to control whether someone accepts
me in a medical school you do not get to
control like you can play really hard
and you can work really hard and you
were saying this yourself that you
should be able to appreciate that like
someone is better than you you should be
able to like walk on to a field and play
a game and say I gave it my all but damn
they just played better and sometimes I
hear when I work with eSports athletes
who are very successful most of them
have actually bad attitude
the ones that are the most successful
are the ones that say that like and you
can watch like eSports interviews and
some people will say like they just
played better that day it's not I'm not
good enough it's not that I didn't play
well enough it's just they played the
better game that day that's what happens
when you work with professional athletes
that's how it is and the ones who
recognize that or I think the ones that
like they focus on playing the best game
that they can and I want to genuinely
feel that every single time and I would
be lying if I said that I felt that way
every single time good 100% honesty I
get I get that toxic feeling where I'm
just I just feel like I messed up
somewhere yeah man so so I'm glad I'm
glad you are honest with yourself about
that and I don't want you to start
deluding yourself into believing what
you should believe instead of what you
do believe what I want you to do is
notice it right as that toxicity comes
up ask yourself Who am I thinking about
now am I thinking about me or am I
thinking about them did I play
the best game that I could have played
or was I distracted or did I not
exercise or whatever and I think that
like that's really where you need to
pivot like you need to catch yourself as
you start to tilt and you start to think
about other people try to bring the
focus back to yourself and you can do
that through have you have you watched
any of our meditation stuff I have
literally watched every single YouTube
video that you've put out and okay
single stream I've double watched
everything okay so I think we're gonna
do a little bit of meditation right now
and then we're gonna do questions if
that's okay should I go get a dog no
that's okay I think the dog being a
distraction is actually a good thing
okay so so first of all this do you have
questions I do but I like ADHD brain
they've escaped me and I'll have to find
him again let me ask you kind of just
one last question
so through healthy game or we've had
some obscene we've had some downs so
we've done some stuff that's worked
really well on some stuff that hasn't
worked really well this is what I'll
tell you just about my own experience
there are some times that sometimes we
think about how to make successful
content and how do you think that works
out could you repeat that just yeah the
end of it so we sometimes try to make
successful content we think about like
how are we gonna make something that's
gonna be successful how are we gonna get
a lot of views on YouTube and twitch
okay and and what do you think happens
when we think about that um you probably
overanalyze it maybe and you and you
overthink it and it doesn't perform the
way you think it should because it's
actually way simpler than then it seems
so how do we what's what's that
simplicity how do we make successful
content make it digestible make it make
it something that's so simple everybody
when it in yeah anybody from any mindset
from any education level can see it and
desire to click on and watch okay that
is exactly the kind of thinking that
leads us to failure oh so here's what we
do do you think when I when I started
interviewing you and when I interview
people do I do you think I think about
making it digestible for everyone no no
I don't think you do what do I think
about in the actual videos itself the in
the actual content I think you're
thinking about the situation I had the
person that you're talking to you
absolutely yeah so I have no idea if
this is gonna get up votes or down votes
and frankly I don't [ __ ] care mmm
we make our best content when we stay
true to our mission which is building
the best piece of like welding equipment
we can which is to get on an interview
with you and all I care about is you
that's what happens that's all I care
about is like serving you and helping
you and I think that's what resonates
with people it's like if you make chili
if you just you don't try to win the
chili contest that's exactly what you're
talking about earlier which is all this
marketing stuff which I know that a lot
of people are way more successful than I
am understand which is like how to make
digestible stuff you know we have people
editing or YouTube so I know that that's
an important part but at its core it's
to play the best game that I can it's
not to play the game better than anyone
else I don't want to beat anyone on
YouTube
anytime I think about that I get [ __ ]
gets in my head and then like I'm not
thinking about you and then I can't help
you it's to do the task at hand and do
that task as best as you can
I feel like there should be and I always
have trouble coming up with the right
words I know what I want to say up here
it's there I just say a shitty version
of it I feel like there should be
milestones as to how I can get myself to
change that thought pattern I feel like
there should be yes like things that I
can practice and things that I can
tangibly see and do to stop myself from
thinking like that because I don't want
to think like that yeah what I'm see I'm
like I said at the beginning I am a
genuinely happy person I do have like
like I'm a happy guy and and I do
genuinely scream for chat in fact i
watch most streams for chat like I get
my entire entertainment out of twitch.tv
from chat because chats reactions are
hilarious to just about everything and
it's just like yeah but just think about
that for a second right so when you
watch chat there are two ways to watch
chat one way to watch chat is for your
enjoyment and to create like a good
interaction for yourself and for chat
the other way to watch chat is to see if
chat likes what you're doing or doesn't
like what you're doing right like do you
see the difference there one is about
like you being there in the moment and
just creating a fun experience for
yourself and for them and the other is
like oh let me try to do whatever chat
likes mm-hm
pogchamp five head fours and CD while
all-all-all
cat cafe hands like if I kick out of it
even if they hate me exactly exactly
but so but see that's the just think
about that for a second right because
what you're thinking about is their
opinions of you and your comparison
doesn't matter it's about you focusing
on yourself and you're absolutely right
that there are milestones and there's a
path to move from this way of thinking
to a better way of thinking and I think
that path starts with meditation the
other thing it starts with is for you to
notice within yourself and try to see
like what are you zooming in on are you
zooming on in on the act are you zooming
in on the outcome are you trying to
fulfill an expectation or you just are
you trying to just play the best game
that you can right like every time I
load up a game I can play to win
or I can play the best game that I know
how to play those are two very different
things I want to stop being competitive
like that
I want to instead of think about how can
I play the best game that I can play I
want to think how can I be the most
entertaining person that I can be
instead of worrying about the game at
all because yeah this is some of the
best most entertaining streamers that
I've ever seen could care less how
they're doing in the game in fact most
of the time they're intentionally
playing bad because it's funnier that
way yeah so I want that so I think this
is where you start so we'll do
meditation in a second but what I want
you to see what I want you to see is is
just notice so it starts with noticing
so this is like a big thing that I
believe that many people like don't
believe I believe that noticing and
understanding is actually enough to
change behavior mm-hmm this is different
from having information but noticing I
think once you have true noticing or
awareness of something it's gonna change
so that like if you get burned by
something you're not you're gonna
continue like if I get burned by a hot
stove in my hand is numb I'm gonna
continue getting burned by the hot stove
but if I know if I notice that this is
this is the source of my pain if I
notice and become aware of my thoughts
then I get control over them I think the
problem is that you don't know how you
shift from one mindset to another so the
first thing you've got to do is just
notice the shift then you'll get control
over as crazy as that sounds I believe
so this is the other big thing as people
think that like I made some magical
transformation that I was like a
caterpillar and I became a butterfly
like I was failing out of college and
now I'm super successful they don't
understand I'm the same [ __ ] that I
used to be I'm just as lazy I
procrastinate just as much and they're
like how does that happen it's just I
just noticed stuff about myself it's not
that I've changed it's just I just see
that [ __ ] I understand a little bit
better about why I procrastinate and
sometimes that's enough so start with
the noticing so when you have a good day
like take a step back and like ask
yourself why am I having fun when you
start
not have fun noticed that to say oh [ __ ]
I'm not feeling good about myself and
then ask yourself what am I thinking
about am I thinking about other people
or am I thinking about myself how do I
get the game back on me like how do I
focus on myself again how do I stop
looking out the window and start looking
in a mirror
you know like that's what you need to do
just start with that and then meditate
so we're gonna do the we're gonna do the
alternate nostril breathing you remember
this one yeah yep so I was buying this
right before we uh right before the
cofn tastic yeah so what we'll do it a
little bit more okay
so this is the practice for those of
y'all who haven't seen it so take your
we're gonna do alternate nostril
breathing so take your thumb and block
your right nostril and breathe in
through your left and then switch to the
other side and then breathe out breathe
in through the same side don't switch
switch it breathe out breathe in switch
breathe out
breathe in switch breathe out breathe in
switch
breathe out and now continue at your own
pace we'll practice for about two
minutes
you
go ahead and finish the round that
you're on let your eyes remain closed
[Music]
you
alright go ahead and come on back so
I want you to take a snapshot of how you
feel right now
you
how do you feel
determined
hungry to do what
- to do
to
you better
[Music]
to think more without the restraints of
competitiveness because that's what I
feel that's what that's how it feels it
feel it feels like I'm being tied to a
radiator in a basement yeah that's how
competitiveness feels to me now yeah so
you used to feel good so now it feels
like a gross those thoughts I think are
actually another radiator so I'm chained
to two radiators on it
yeah I don't mean to and I think that's
okay you're on one step but eventually
you need to let go of that too
so as you breathe as you focus on
yourself your goal is to actually be
completely content with where you are
hmm but I think we'll settle so you're
right that there are milestones involved
the first milestone is to step away from
comparing yourself to other people and
then eventually this milestone needs to
be shed as well but this is a great
place to start and I think that you're
very competitive and goal-oriented by
nature so I think that that's fine but
eventually we want to take that away too
but we'll we'll work on that my goals
yes so I think your your way to goal
focused and I think the challenge here
so I'll leave one last thing with you I
think the reason that you shift too much
is because you get highly highly
determined and it's that determination
that you rely on to move forward and
then one day when you wake up and the
determination is gone it's very
difficult to move forward so oddly
enough what you need to do is learn how
to move forward without determination
which is like tricky yeah but that I
mean at this point in time makes a
little sense to me but but you but you
understand the pattern right like you
wake up and you're like gung-ho today's
the day like we're gonna do it and
you're motivated and you're optimistic
and you drive forward and then what
happens when you wake up and you don't
have that because that feeling goes away
right
I feel mad at myself yeah Amen I'm
missing an important part of myself one
point-six source welder mechanic back to
twitch because that determination wanes
and then you blame yourself for not
being determined
whereas what you really need to do is
learn how to operate without
determination that your motivation
motivation is going to fade over time
like you just have to understand that
this is maybe a conversation for a
different day let's start well it's the
whole yeah so I think like like how to
how to act without that internal sense
of determination I think some people in
twitch at understood I'm very impressed
with twitch chat by the way because I
think they're picking up a lot I love
you good said I love you never change
news I think it's it's awesome that you
came on um I know that I'm sorry I
wasn't able to quite give you what you
want to but I really do believe that
your this is gonna help you move forward
so start feel like I've actually got a
look III feel like I got a lot from this
and I think actually the really cool
thing is that you did such a good job of
moving to a new place that we are
opening up an entire new can of worms
but you can't open up you've actually
hit a milestone and what I'm telling you
is I see a whole other plateau that you
need to climb and move down but that's
for another day okay
absolutely strong work man thank you for
coming on it was an absolute pleasure
thank you so much for having me thank
you and hopefully we'll be able to check
it with you again in a few weeks or a
few months or something okay right on
okay we're gonna have a great day